# PIC16F877A
TO FAMILIARIZE PIC16F877A

* code - MPLABPX IDE
* simulation - proteus 8 professional
* Datasheet - https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/devicedoc/39582b.pdf

#### MPLAB Setting
 * Download and install
 * Step 1 : Open MPLAB -> File -> New Project ->(New Tab opens) Device : PIC16F877A -> TOOL : Simulator -> FINISH
 * Step 2 :(Side bar click on project name) -> source file(RIGHT CLICK) -> NEW -> main.c
 * Step 3 : (Menu bar) Production -> set configuration bits -> change FOSC's EXTRC to HS -> generate configuration bits (copy config definition to main.c file) external high-speed crystal oscillator (typically >4 MHz, often up to 20 MHz or more)
   
#### TIMERS & INTERRUPTS

|Timer	|Size	|Control Register	|Count Register|	Min Delay|	Max Delay|
|:---:|:--:|:---:|:--:|:--:|:---:|
|TIMER0|	8-bit|OPTION_REG|	TMR0	|0.2usec	|13.107ms|
|TIMER1|	16-bit|	T1CON|	TMR1H,TMR1L|	0.2usec	|104.857ms|
|TIMER2|	8-bit|	T2CON	|TMR2|	0.2usec	|819usec|


##### TIMER 0 

Time to increment the Timer count by one(timer tick):
<br> tick = (Prescalar/(Fosc/4)  Fosc=16MHz
<br> Here, Timer0 is 8 bit hence time period to complete 0 to 255 is consider as delay 
<br> i.e, delay = Count * tick
<br> Count = (Delay/tick)
<br> RegValue = TimerMax- Count
<br> RegValue = TimerMax-(Delay/tick) = TimerMax - (Delay/((Prescalar *4)/Fosc))




|Timer|	Size|	Formula for delay calculation|
|:---:|:--:|:---:|
|TIMER0	|8-bit|	RegValue = 256-((Delay * Fosc)/(Prescalar*4))|
TIMER1 |16-bit|	RegValue = 65536-((Delay * Fosc)/(Prescalar*4))|
TIMER2	|8-bit	|RegValue = 256-((Delay * Fosc)/(Prescalar*4))|

* Calculate the Timer Count for the required delay.
* Set the Presaclar bits in OPTION_REG as per the delay calculations.
* Clear the PSAbit for using the prescalar.
* Select the Clock Source Internal/External using TOCS bit.
* Load the timer value into TMRO register.
* Enable the Timer0 Interrupt by setting TMR0IE bit
* Enable the Global and Peripheral interrupts by setting GIE and PIE bits
* Refer to https://exploreembedded.com/wiki/PIC16f877a_Timer


##### TIMER 1

 |CCP Mode | Timer Resource| 
 |:--:|:---:|
|Capture|	Timer1|
|Compare	|Timer1|
|PWM	|Timer2|

#### PULSE WIDTH MODULATION

|PWM Channel|	Port Pin|	Control Register|	Duty Cycle Register	|Period Register|
|:---:|:--:|:---:|:--:|:--:|
|PWM1|	PC.2|	CCP1CON|	CCPR1L|	PR2|
|PWM2|	PC.1|	CCP2CON|	CCPR2L|	PR2|

-> for setting PWM signal at 2Khz
* PWMperiod = 1/2kHz
* PWMperiod = (PR2 + 1) x 4 x Tosc x TMR2PrescalerValue
* Tosc = 1/Fosc:: Fosc = 16Mhz 


##### INTERRUPTS

 REFER :https://deepbluembedded.com/irq-interrupt-requests/
 
* An external interrupt is a signal generated by a hardware device outside the processor, like a switch, sensor, or another device, that triggers a system to respond immediately.
* IRQ stands for interrupt requests.
* Two types for IRQ pins.
        (1) RB0 INT (edge-triggered)
        (2) PORTB IOC (interrupt-on-change)
* The registers which control the interrupt circuitry are the following 5-Registers

|INTCON|	PIE1|	PIE2|	PIR1|	PIR2|
|:---:|:---:|:--:|:--:|:---:|

#### SPI - Serial Peripheral Interface

<br> Synchronous serial communication protocol used for high-speed data transfer.

Key Features:
* Master-slave architecture.
* Uses four lines:
  <br> MISO - Master input slave output (Dout From Slave)
  <br> MOSI - Master output slave input (Dout From Master)
  <br> SCK - Serial Clock, generated by the master and goes to the slave
  <br> SS - Slave Select. Generated by the master to control which slave to talk to.
  <br> &ensp;&ensp;It’s usually an active-low signal
  <br> &ensp;&ensp;The master device can select which slave to talk to by setting the SS (slave select) pin to logic low.
* Full-duplex communication.
* Speed Up to tens of Mbps.

<br> Applications: Flash memory, sensors, SD cards, displays.



